src/ch02-00-introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

# The Nix Package Manager

Nix is a package manager which focuses on
caputuring all inputs which contribute to building software.
The result of factoring all of the information about building
the software is called a derivation. This aggregated information includes where
the source code is pulled, configuration flags, patches,
dependencies, build steps, installation steps, and many other potential inputs.

This information is aggregated through hashing, and allows nix to
describe and reference the exact software which is intended to use.
This enables nix to be used on any system because it's assumptions
do not collide with the assumptions of a host system. This also means that
nix does not adhere to the traditional [File Hierarchical System(FHS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard)
but it also means that it's not limited to FHS's restriction of only having
a single variant of a piece of software.

# Who is Nix For

## Teams of Developers

Development needs to have similar tooling across every individual. Having divergent
development environments and productions environments is a major cause of regressions
in software development. Nix can help mitigate this by allowing development environments
to be version controlled and maintained along with a project.

## DevOps (Operations)

Nix allows you to percisely describe the software you intended to use. Nix packages
are defined by their dependencies, so they inherently retain their SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)
by default. By leveraging NixOS modules, one can also create configurable services and compose
it into coherent systems. The combination of Nix + NixOS allows you to have delcarative configuration
of both services and sytems.

## System Administrators (home to enterprise)

Ever have to maintain a few systems to a few hundred systems? The ability to version control and manipulate
systems-as-code enables a new paradigm of system configuration management. Atomically apply or rollback
system updates for each system. Nixpkgs can also be freely extended to include personal or private additions
of software; this allows you to leverage all other Nix tooling as though your application-specific software
was a first-class citizen.

Also, Nix largely invalidates the need for docker. However, nix can also be used to produce docker images
if there is a downstream technology which consumes oci images as an interface (E.g. kubernetes).

## Power Users

Do you have incredible specific or opinated environments? Nix allows you to declaratively create
project (flakes), user (home-manager), or system (NixOS) environments with the exact software
and configuration you desired. Whether you're building software or ricing a desktop, nix will allow
you to version control and specify your configuration exactly how you intended.

# The Nix Ecosystem

There's roughly four layers of abstractions in the official nix ecosystem, these are:

- Nix - The domain-specifc language used to write nix expressions
- Nix - The package manager
- Nixpkgs - The official Nix package repository
- NixOS - A linux distribution built upon nixpkgs

There are also a few unofficial projects which are commonly used within the community:
- [Home-manager](https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager) - NixOS-like user configuration for linux or MacOS built upon nixpkgs
- [Nix-darwin](https://github.com/LnL7/nix-darwin) - NixOS-like configuration, but for MacOS

All of these topics will be discussed in greater detail in later sections, but a 
quick summary of official projects are provided below.

## The Nix Language

The Nix language is a Domain-Specific Language (DSL) which is designed to
handle package configuration. Nix can be thought of [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) + functions +
some syntax sugar. It's main goal is to provide effect-free evaluation of
package configuration, to this point Nix is restricted in many ways and lacks
many features from generic programming languages. There is very limited input and
output possible to the system, there are no loops, no concurrency primitives, and
no types. What is left is a small functional-oriented programming language. After all,
Nix's goal is to take a few inputs such as a system platform, and produce a build
graph which can be used to build software.

## Nix the Package Manager

The Nix Package Manager began its life as the [PhD thesis work](https://edolstra.github.io/pubs/phd-thesis.pdf)
of Eelco Dolstra. The goal was to bring discipline to the software landscape. Similar to
how structured programming helped tame the complexity of goto through introducing constructs such
as loops and logic flow; so too does nix attempt to tame the chaos of package management
through explicit descriptions of software and their dependencies. The truely novel idea
of Nix is that of the *derivation*. It encapsulates everything about a piece of software,
and these derivations can be referenced from other derivations constituting a Directed-Acyclic-Graph
of how to built that software from source.

## Nixpkgs

Nixpkgs is the official package repository for the Nix community. It contains the logic
on how to build over 60,000+ software packages. Nixpkgs can be thought of as an
expert body-of-knowledge on the subject of how to build software. When a user
asks for the "firefox" package, the nix package manager is able to input the user's computer
platform into nixpkgs, and nixpkgs is then able to produce a build graph on
how to build firefox and all of it's dependencies down to the C compiler.
This allows for a great deal of freedom in how nix is leveraged, and nix can be used on any Linux distribution and MacOS as
first class supported OS's, and to a much lesser degree on many other UNIX-like OS's.

## NixOS

NixOS is a non-FHS Linux distribution which leverages nixpkgs to provide a wealth
of software ready to be combined into a system environment. The concept of a nix
derivation is extended here to include service configuration and system creation.
The entirity of the system is represented as a derivation which gives it many of
it's defining qualities such as atomic rollbacks, system-as-a-configuration-file,
extensive user configuration potential.

Commit message:

Mention that Nixpkgs also has pre-built binaries
closes #8

src/ch02-00-introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

# The Nix Package Manager

Nix is a package manager which focuses on
caputuring all inputs which contribute to building software.
The result of factoring all of the information about building
the software is called a derivation. This aggregated information includes where
the source code is pulled, configuration flags, patches,
dependencies, build steps, installation steps, and many other potential inputs.

This information is aggregated through hashing, and allows nix to
describe and reference the exact software which is intended to use.
This enables nix to be used on any system because it's assumptions
do not collide with the assumptions of a host system. This also means that
nix does not adhere to the traditional [File Hierarchical System(FHS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard)
but it also means that it's not limited to FHS's restriction of only having
a single variant of a piece of software.

# Who is Nix For

## Teams of Developers

Development needs to have similar tooling across every individual. Having divergent
development environments and productions environments is a major cause of regressions
in software development. Nix can help mitigate this by allowing development environments
to be version controlled and maintained along with a project.

## DevOps (Operations)

Nix allows you to percisely describe the software you intended to use. Nix packages
are defined by their dependencies, so they inherently retain their SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)
by default. By leveraging NixOS modules, one can also create configurable services and compose
it into coherent systems. The combination of Nix + NixOS allows you to have delcarative configuration
of both services and sytems.

## System Administrators (home to enterprise)

Ever have to maintain a few systems to a few hundred systems? The ability to version control and manipulate
systems-as-code enables a new paradigm of system configuration management. Atomically apply or rollback
system updates for each system. Nixpkgs can also be freely extended to include personal or private additions
of software; this allows you to leverage all other Nix tooling as though your application-specific software
was a first-class citizen.

Also, Nix largely invalidates the need for docker. However, nix can also be used to produce docker images
if there is a downstream technology which consumes oci images as an interface (E.g. kubernetes).

## Power Users

Do you have incredible specific or opinated environments? Nix allows you to declaratively create
project (flakes), user (home-manager), or system (NixOS) environments with the exact software
and configuration you desired. Whether you're building software or ricing a desktop, nix will allow
you to version control and specify your configuration exactly how you intended.

# The Nix Ecosystem

There's roughly four layers of abstractions in the official nix ecosystem, these are:

- Nix - The domain-specifc language used to write nix expressions
- Nix - The package manager
- Nixpkgs - The official Nix package repository
- NixOS - A linux distribution built upon nixpkgs

There are also a few unofficial projects which are commonly used within the community:
- [Home-manager](https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager) - NixOS-like user configuration for linux or MacOS built upon nixpkgs
- [Nix-darwin](https://github.com/LnL7/nix-darwin) - NixOS-like configuration, but for MacOS

All of these topics will be discussed in greater detail in later sections, but a 
quick summary of official projects are provided below.

## The Nix Language

The Nix language is a Domain-Specific Language (DSL) which is designed to
handle package configuration. Nix can be thought of [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) + functions +
some syntax sugar. It's main goal is to provide effect-free evaluation of
package configuration, to this point Nix is restricted in many ways and lacks
many features from generic programming languages. There is very limited input and
output possible to the system, there are no loops, no concurrency primitives, and
no types. What is left is a small functional-oriented programming language. After all,
Nix's goal is to take a few inputs such as a system platform, and produce a build
graph which can be used to build software.

## Nix the Package Manager

The Nix Package Manager began its life as the [PhD thesis work](https://edolstra.github.io/pubs/phd-thesis.pdf)
of Eelco Dolstra. The goal was to bring discipline to the software landscape. Similar to
how structured programming helped tame the complexity of goto through introducing constructs such
as loops and logic flow; so too does nix attempt to tame the chaos of package management
through explicit descriptions of software and their dependencies. The truely novel idea
of Nix is that of the *derivation*. It encapsulates everything about a piece of software,
and these derivations can be referenced from other derivations constituting a Directed-Acyclic-Graph
of how to built that software from source.

## Nixpkgs

Nixpkgs is the official package repository for the Nix community. It contains the logic
on how to build over 60,000+ software packages. Nixpkgs can be thought of as an
expert body-of-knowledge on the subject of how to build software. When a user
asks for the "firefox" package, the nix package manager is able to input the user's computer
platform into nixpkgs, and nixpkgs is then able to produce a build graph on
how to build firefox and all of it's dependencies down to the C compiler.
This allows for a great deal of freedom in how nix is leveraged, and nix can be used on any Linux distribution and MacOS as
first class supported OS's, and to a much lesser degree on many other UNIX-like OS's.

Nixpkgs is also supported by [Hydra](https://hydra.nixos.org/), which provides
pre-built binaries of libre software for Linux and MacOS.

## NixOS

NixOS is a non-FHS Linux distribution which leverages nixpkgs to provide a wealth
of software ready to be combined into a system environment. The concept of a nix
derivation is extended here to include service configuration and system creation.
The entirity of the system is represented as a derivation which gives it many of
it's defining qualities such as atomic rollbacks, system-as-a-configuration-file,
extensive user configuration potential.
